what's up world its Dallas for gadget
hacks and today I'm going to show you
how to save battery life by restricting
one of the most notorious wakelocks
on Android an app can request the
wakelock to prevent your device from
entering deep sleep mode so that it can
sync data in the background
this obviously drains your battery since
instead of running in low-power sleep
mode your processor is fully activated
so that it can perform this test but
these wake locks are a necessary evil
since many of the apps and services that
we enjoy simply could not function
without them and probably the most
complained about wake lock in the
history of Android is the NLP wake lock
this one is unavoidable for most people
since it's requested by Google Play
services and is tied directly to your
phone's location reporting essentially
every 60 seconds Google Play services
sets off a CPU wake up alarm that then
places this NLP wake lock into effect so
that your device can update its location
data
well developer cryptic decided that 60
seconds was sparked and frequent and
created an exposed module that reduces
the alarm interval to once every 4
minutes in fact this should greatly
reduce battery drain caused by the NLP
wake lock and its companion NLP
collector wake lock and at the same time
you don't have to lose any existing
functionality but the module hasn't
found its way to the exposed repository
just yet so you'll have to download it
from the developer's XD a thread I've
got that download link down for you at
the full tutorial and if you need help
getting the xposed framework installed
in the first place there's also a simple
guide on that subject so head over to
the link in the description below this
video and you'll find everything you
need to cut back on this long-standing
battery drain but with the module
downloaded just have to download
complete notification to begin from here
tap installed then when that's finished
you'll get a notification from expose
telling you that the module isn't
activated yet and that a reboot is
needed so just have to activate and
reboot button on this notification to
take care of both of those at one time
and when you get back up no further
setup is needed the module will work its
magic and you should see a nice little
bump in battery life but for the full
breakdown
be sure to check out my article over on
gadget hacker calm and as always we'd
appreciate it if you would like and
comment on this video and subscribe to
our channel so we'll see you again next
time folks but until then happy gadget